[Music]
is it just me or are the so-called
villains of the Disney Universe the real
heroes that we need right now since the
early days of Disney we've been taught
that to be pretty and kind is the way to
win heart but the princes and princesses
that are supposedly so heroic and good
come on all the colorful sidekicks who
have plenty of style put very little
agency just don't have the same pull as
a really naughty baddie if we're being
honest with ourselves the highlights of
Disney films are the scenes where the
villains get to wield their magical
powers the early Disney Princess films
show the austere elegant Evil Queen and
Maleficent transforming into frightful
hags and terrifying dragons
the animation is psychedelic an
experimental wonderfully dramatic and
fear-inducing and vitally much more
visually stimulating than watching Snow
White do the dusting
unlike the bland conventional petite
princesses with small waists and huge
eyes or the muscley nippleless heroes
Aladdin I'm looking at you which your
look head they're Disney's villains
launched their physical diversity in the
Little Mermaid fabulous sea witch Ursula
boozing out of her LBD eight legged and
proud is unafraid to command the space
around her and Ariel in contrast is
timid willing to give up her voice and
showing very little imagination dreams
of having only two legs thirty it's
hardly a surprise that a looka verse
Allah was inspired by outrageous drag
queen Devine with those eyebrows
reaching the hairline and a pronounced
pocket mouth that could eat you alive
Ursula is a born performer made for the
spotlight much like Hades of the
underworld whose puns and wordplay make
him the depth and soul of the party
since I got a hunk of moussaka caught in
my throat his head is a fiery mop of
blue flames and his swirling black toga
made up of mist makes him stand apart
from the rest of the glowing golden gods
truly our divas know how to make an
entrance and are totally aware of the
importance of a powerful first
impression in Pocahontas the flamboyant
Ratcliffe rocks up to his red carpet
with ribbons in his pigtails
Maleficent gate crashes Sleeping
Beauty's christening bathed in a green
light and if anyone knows the meaning of
fashionista
it's the razor-sharp cheekbones style
Queen herself Cruella de Vil admittedly
not the most ethical of women but who
cares when you have a theme song this
catchy our Disney Villains hands down
get the best songs no sake ballads about
finding their one true love your night
[Music]
instead we are privileged to hear their
dastardly plans as they soliloquized in
the Lion King a film much-loved for its
musical interludes its cars menacing be
prepared that literally makes the
earth-moon
[Music]
and although they do indulge in a few
wicked acts we must look at the
motivations of the Disney divas
overarching Shakespearean themes of
greed power and jealousy are
recognizable throughout but ultimately
most of our bodies just seem to be
isolated and lonely
they have been ostracized for being or
looking different and understandably
turning on the society that is Shantha
Maleficent was the only one not invited
to a party dear what an awkward
situation Hades was invited but clearly
unwanted
[Music]
scars insecurities about his place in
the pride are ignored
life's not fair and Ursula has to trick
people into giving her their souls just
as she can have some company banished
and exiled and practically starving if
any wonder that so many of us end up
relating to and rooting for the bad guys
with their imperfect lives and flawed
personalities we see ourselves reflected
more in them than in the heroes and
heroines who get their happily ever
afters
[Music]